Have you ever fought long battles with the major modes out there (especially
programming-language modes) that force its indentation style on you? Worse,
have you discovered that some of these modes indent your code with a MIXTURE
of TABS *AND* SPACES?

Kakapo-mode is about giving back the control of the TAB character back to you,
the user, with some conditions:

 * The concepts of "indentation" and "leading whitespace" are the same.
 * Indentation is taken care of with TAB characters (which are hard TABS by
   default) but which can be adjusted to be expanded into SPACES.
 * If you press a TAB character *after* some text, we insert SPACES up to the
   next tab-stop column; this is a simpler version of "Smart Tabs"
   (http://www.emacswiki.org/emacs/SmartTabs).
 * If at any point we detect a mixture of tabs and spaces in the indentation,
   we display a warning message when modifying the buffer.

`kakapo-mode' is very similar to "Smart Tabs", but with a key difference: the
latter requires you to write helper functions for it to work properly;
instead, kakapo-mode relies on the human user for aesthetics.

Central to `kakapo-mode' is the idea of the kakapo tab, or "KTAB". The KTAB is
either a hard TAB character or a `tab-width' number of SPACE characters,
depending on whether `indent-tabs-mode' is set to true. `kakapo-mode' inserts
a KTAB when we are indenting (leading whitespace), or the right number of
SPACE characters when we are aligning something inside or at the end of a
line.

Installation:

Move this file to somewhere in the `load-path'.
Then add the following lines to ~/.emacs:

 (require 'kakapo-mode)
 (add-hook 'text-mode-hook 'kakapo-mode)
 (add-hook 'prog-mode-hook 'kakapo-mode)

. You can of course change, e.g., `prog-mode-hook' to be some other more
specific hook.

When `kakapo-mode' is enabled, the TAB key will invoke `kakapo-tab' (inserting
KTABS or spaces as necessary) instead of being interpreted as usual by whatever
mode is active.

You should probably use the following keymappings to play well with Evil mode
and any other mode that insists on using mixed TAB/SPACE characters for
indentation (leading whitespace). Granted, these helper functions do not
respect semantic indentation (as kakapo-mode doesn't care about the *number*
of KTABS in the indentation as long as they are all KTABS) --- this kind of
simplicity is exactly what kakapo-mode is all about!

 (define-key evil-normal-state-map "o" (lambda () (interactive) (kakapo-open nil)))
 (define-key evil-normal-state-map "O" (lambda () (interactive) (kakapo-open t)))
 (define-key evil-insert-state-map (kbd "RET") 'kakapo-ret-and-indent)
 (define-key evil-insert-state-map (kbd "DEL") 'kakapo-backspace)
 (define-key evil-insert-state-map (kbd "<S-backspace>") 'kakapo-upline)

You can do

 (setq kakapo-strict t)

if you want to make `kakapo-mode' refuse to modify the buffer if it detects
indentation errors (errors are always displayed in the echo area).
