The macro keydef provides a simplified interface to define-key that
smoothly handles a number of common complications.

The global-set-key command isn't ideal for novices because of its
relatively complex syntax. And I always found it a little
inconvenient to have to quote the name of the command---that is, I
tend to forget the quote every once in a while and then have to go
back and fix it after getting a load error.

One of the best features is that you can give an Emacs lisp form (or
even a series of forms) as the key definition argument, instead of a
command name, and the keydef macro will automatically add an
interactive lambda wrapper. I use this to get, for example, a more
emphatic kill-buffer command (no confirmation query) by writing

  (keydef "<S-f11>" (kill-buffer nil))

For keydef the key sequence is expected to be given uniformly in the
form of a string for the 'kbd' macro, with one or two refinements
that are intended to conceal from users certain points of confusion,
such as (for those whose keyboards lack a Meta key) the whole
Meta/ESC/escape muddle.

I have had some trouble in the past regarding the distinction
between ESC and [escape] (in a certain combination of circumstances
using the latter form caused definitions made with the other form to
be masked---most puzzling when I wasn't expecting it). Therefore the
ESC form is actually preprocessed a bit to ensure that the binding
goes into esc-map.

There is one other special feature of the key sequence syntax
expected by the keydef macro: You can designate a key definition for
a particular mode-map by giving the name of the mode together with
the key sequence string in list form, for example

  (keydef (latex "C-c %") comment-region)

This means that the key will be defined in latex-mode-map. [The
point of using this particular example will be made clear below.] I
arranged for the mode name to be given in symbol form just because I
didn't want to have to type extra quotes if I could get away with
it. For the same reason this kind of first arg is not written in
dotted pair form.

If the given mode-map is not defined, keydef "does the right thing"
using eval-after-load. In order to determine what library the
mode-map will be loaded from, it uses the following algorithm:

First check if foo-mode has autoload information. If not, check
whether "foo-mode" is the name of a library that can be found
somewhere in the load-path (using locate-library); otherwise check
whether "foo" is the name of a locatable library. Failing that, give
up and return nil.

There is a fall-back mechanism, however, to handle exceptional
cases. If foo-mode-map is undefined but the list mode-map-alist
contains an entry of the form (foo-mode-map foo-other-name-map),
then foo-other-name-map is used as the name of the
keymap.

If the mode-map is not loaded yet AND the command being bound to a
key is undefined at the time of the keydef assignment, it presents
further problems. The simplest solution is to assume that after the
package is loaded that defines the mode-map, the given command will
be defined and satisfy commandp. With some extra effort it should be
possible to determine more accurately whether the command will be
defined or not, but I'm not sure I want to go to that extreme, since
as far as I can see it would require opening the package file and
searching through it for a matching defun/defalias/fset statement.

If the mode name matches the mode map name, but foo-mode is not
autoloaded, then some autoload information may need to be provided.
For example, the following line allows definitions to be made for
debugger-mode-map even before debug.el is loaded.

 (autoload 'debugger-mode "debug" "Autoloaded." 'interactive)

Although there is no easy way provided by keydef for
gnus-summary-limit-map to be accessed directly, because
its name does not include "mode", you can get a binding into
such a map by writing

  (keydef (gnus-summary "/ z") gnus-summary-limit-to-zapped)

which binds /z in gnus-summary-mode-map, which is equivalent to
binding z in gnus-summary-limit-map.

You might need to add an autoload statement for gnus-summary-mode
in order for this to work, so that keydef knows that it should use
eval-after-load and that the file the mode function will be loaded
from is called "gnus-sum" rather than "gnus-summary-mode". (If it
were the latter, keydef would be able to resolve everything
automatically.)

We COULD HAVE just put the definitions into the mode hook in the
standard way, instead of using eval-after-load, but that would mean
the key definitions get executed repetitiously every time the mode
function gets called, which seems better to avoid, if only for
esthetic reasons (if it can be done without too much trouble).

The following examples show some typical keydef lines followed by the
results of the macro expansion.

Simplest kind of definition:

(keydef "C-x m" gnus-group-mail)

  -->(define-key global-map (kbd "C-x m") (quote gnus-group-mail))

What if the command name is misspelled?

(keydef "C-x m" gnus-gruop-mail)

  -->(message "keydef: gnus-gruop-mail unknown \
               \(perhaps misspelled, or not loaded yet\)")

A leading ESC gets special handling to go through esc-map.

(keydef "ESC &" query-replace-regexp)

  -->(define-key esc-map (kbd "&") (quote query-replace-regexp))

Undefine a key:

(keydef "ESC `")

  -->(define-key esc-map (kbd "`") nil)

If the second arg is a string, keydef defines the given key sequence
as a keyboard macro. The following macro puts in TeX-style double
quotes and then moves the cursor backward to leave it in the middle:

(keydef "\"" "``''\C-b\C-b")

  -->(define-key global-map (kbd "\"") "``''\002\002")

Reset a key to self-insert

(keydef "\"" "\"")

  -->(define-key global-map (kbd "\"") (quote self-insert-command))

If the second arg is a list, wrap it in an interactive lambda form.

(keydef "C-z"
  (message "Control-Z key disabled---redefine it if desired."))

  -->(define-key global-map
      (kbd "C-z")
      (lambda (arg)
        "anonymous keydef function"
        (interactive "p")
        (message "Control-Z key disabled---redefine it if desired.")))

Note that the interactive lambda wrapper added by keydef, when the
CMD does not satisfy commandp, always takes a single prefix argument
named "arg", which is read in the usual way with (interactive "p");
so this could be used in the body of the function if need be.

This shows the notation for F-keys.

(keydef "<C-f17>" (kill-buffer nil))

  -->(define-key global-map
      (kbd "<C-f17>")
      (lambda (arg)
        "*Anonymous function created by keydef."
        (interactive "p")
        (kill-buffer nil)))

Because of the confusing Meta/Escape complications, I recommend to
the users that I support that they use the ESC notation
consistently if that is what they type from their keyboard, even
for F-key definitions that might normally be written with <M-...>
notation.

(keydef "ESC <f3>" find-file-read-only)

  -->(define-key esc-map (kbd "<f3>") (quote find-file-read-only))

The next two definitions go together. The second one shows how to
write a mode-specific definition.

(keydef "<f5>" isearch-forward)

  -->(define-key global-map (kbd "<f5>") (quote isearch-forward))

(keydef (isearch "<f5>") isearch-repeat-forward)

  -->(define-key isearch-mode-map (kbd "<f5>")
                                  (quote isearch-repeat-forward))

Making a definition for a mode-map that is not loaded yet.

(keydef (latex "C-c %") comment-region)

  -->(eval-after-load "tex-mode"
       (quote
        (define-key latex-mode-map
          (kbd "C-c %")
          (quote comment-region))))
